---
title: "The Adventures in Moving - Day 3"
date: 2015-08-03
authors: ["ZDevilInside"]
categories: ["MovingToMexico"]
tags: ["MovingToMexico"]
image: "mexico.jpg"
description: "Adventures in Moving - Day 3"
---
The next morning, I get up, get on my laptop and contact a friend from boarding school that lives in Mexico City.  Pedro gives me some tips for the rest of my trip into Mexico - always tip people 10 pesos or so if they fill your gas tank (Mexico is a "full service" country where you cannot fill your own gas tank!), and gives us the name of the place to go to exchange our US dollars for pesos.  Dipshit Farmers had gone to Mexico before but they took US dollars and we thought it was that way still.  NOPE!  Mexico implemented new rules that was intended to stop money-laundering.  Anyhow, Pedro tells us to go to a "casa de cambio" to get that done.  We find one on the map and program it into my wife's GPS.

Did I tell you that we were using our US Verizon phone service to make this trip?  Oh yeah, that's right. I didn't.  Funny thing is that our Verizon SIM cards didn't work in Mexico.  We can use wifi to get directions on the phone's maps so we do so and head to the money exchange.  That goes pretty well but with a minor problem - we don't speak enough Spanish to find what we are looking for without difficulty.  It takes us 15 minutes or so to find the right place to exchange the money and get on our way again.

As we drive through Mexico, a lot of the scenery reminds me of New Mexico - both southern and northern New Mexico.  We see highland desert terrain and then we go into the mountains.  Pretty scenery.  We have to stop for gas and food from time to time but it was pretty pleasant to say the least.  We make really good time and get into the Mexico City area about 6pm.  OUTSTANDING!

Oh, I forgot to share this part.  Peo and his wife got us the contact information for the real estate agent that was handling our rental.  Did they really exist?  Well, I got an email from them but it was written in Spanish and they know no English.  Basically it says that if we get into Cuernavaca by 10 pm, call her and she will let us into the house.  If it is after then, we should get a hotel, and we can meet up in the AM.  Great, right?  If you only knew, LOL

Traffic in Mexico City is a nightmare during rush hour.  Why do you call it rush hour when nobody is actually moving?  I never understood that.  Anyhow, we are stuck in the left lane when my wife's phone tells us we need to make an immmediate exit to the right.  Nobody was letting us over.  I decide after looking at the map I would go ahead and take the next exit and circle back to get on the road to Cuernavaca.  Based upon our experiences so far, you would expect a disaster, right?  Surprisingly, getting back on the right road wasn't that hard!  Heck, we were even able to stop at a Burger King, get dinner, and back on the correct road in about 45 minutes.  YAY!!!!!

We are looking at the GPS and see that we are on track to get to Cuernavaca by 9pm.  OUTSTANDING!  We will be in our new home that night (if it really exists and we didnt' get scammed) and be able to sleep in our own bed!  Time is going great when all the sudden we come to a complete stop.  What the hell?  The traffic literally stopped moving and we have no idea why.  We are at a point where we cannot get off the road and detour around the traffic somehow.  We just inch along going maybe 100 feet every 30 minutes or so.

Oh, did I tell you about police cars in Mexico always have their flashing lights on?  Well, they do.  They get up on your bumper in traffic and you naturally think you are being pulled over so you try to get over and they just continue on their way.  How is that stressful?  Well, we are stuck in the traffic and the cop cars are trying to jockey for position so they can get through the traffic too.  They kept getting up behind me and I would "pull over" to let them past and they just kept going.  It was weird!

Anyhow, after sitting for 1.5 hours, traffic starts moving again.  We shortly figure out what was the problem.  Mexico City was building an "overhead" for traffic that is like an expressway so you can get from different parts of the city quickly and not having to have to drive "street level".  Great idea!  I wish we knew about it before we got that far so we could have avoided it!

As we finally get back up to speed, it starts to rain.  Did I mention this is monsoon season?  NO?  Well, we figured it out quickly.  Shortly, the rain was coming down in buckets.  Did I say that the roads can get dark in Mexico?  Yep, they can!  There are very few street lights or lights along the highway.  Here we are driving on a road going up a mountainside to Cuernavaca where it was so dark and the rain coming down so hard that we could barely see halfway across the lanes on each side of the van.  I have driven in blizards in the past so this wasn't anything new to me.  We continue on to Cuernavaca.

As we crest the mountain, the rains stop and it is a pretty forest area.  We know we won't get to Cuernavaca until after 11 but I decide to test my memory to see if I can find the new house and then we will look for a hotel for the night.  Yeah, you can guess how that goes.  Surprisingly, I remember exactly how to get there.  I drive by it, point it out to Angel, and she said great, let's go to the hotel.  Remember how I said that our Verizon SIM cards weren't working in Mexico?  LOL  Yeah, we couldn't use it to find a hotel.  Here we go driving down roads looking for a hotel without knowning where one was.  

We keep stopping at places to ask for directions.  Problem?  Yeah, our Spanish sucks to the point that nobody understands us and they don't speak English.  Hotel signs in Mexico are often nothing like we expect in the US - they are often not very well lit and are small.  We keep driving around in circles trying to find a hotel.  We keep seeing Plaza Cuernavaca and the Sears located there.  Angel and I are totally lost.  Very few things are open too.

We stop at a 7-11 (yes, they still exist in Mexico!) and I go in.  I see 2 police officers sitting at a counter eating.  I walk up to the closest one and show them the message from the realtor saying to get a hotel if it is after 10pm and they will let us in the next day.  I ask the officer in my best Spanish "Donde es hotel?"  The officer looks at me strangely.  I show him the email again and he pulls out his phone and calls someone.  As he speaks to the person, the tone of his voice make me realize that the longer he talked, the angrier he was getting.  WTF?  Who was he calling?  What was he saying?  After he finishes talking to whomever he called, he and his partner pick up their food and dump it into the trash, points to me and says "Follow!"  What in the hell is going on?  Oh, while I was in the 7/11 it had started to rain and rain hard.  

I get back in the van and the meowing cats and tell my wife that I was told I needed to follow the police officers.  She asked me where we are going.  I tell her I don't know.  She asks what is going on.  I tell her I don't know.  I pull out of the parking space to see 1 of the officers on a motorcycle putting on a raincoat and pulling out in front of us.  His partner pulls out behind us.  Where are we going?!?  I tell Angel that I am going to follow them and if things start to get more sketchy that I was going to floor it and try to get away.  

As I follow the officer, I start to recognize places I saw before.  I don't know exactly where we are until I see the Costco I saw earlier.  It was directly across from the neighborhood where our new home awaits.  They pull into the guard gate for the Fracc (gated community) where our home is located.  They made arrangements to get the realtor to let us into the house despite it being 1 AM!!!!  I thank the officer as clearly as I can and try to give them money to pay for the food they threw away to help me.  They refuse.  The real estate agent shows up, isn't happy, but let's us into the house.  We unload the van as best as we can, and then go to bed.  The real estate agent got the message across that she wanted to just let us in that night and we would meet up the next day to do the paperwork.

We wake up and meet up with the real estate agent.  She brings her daughter that speaks some English and she can act as an intrepter.  The daughter explains to us what happened when the officer called.  He had told her to get out of bed and let us in the house immedaitely or he was going to go to her house and arrest her!  We had no idea!  We appologize profusely but start to giggle about it.  We couldn't help it.  It was both funny and embarrassing.  Well, we got in our new home after all and found out why it went the way it did!

Anyhow, that is the story of our adventure in moving to Mexico.  We were illprepared, didn't speak the language, had no idea where we were going, our phones didn't work, but we somehow made it to our new home.  This was just the beginning of the adventure!